# Metrics Dashboard Application
Giulia Mialich (giuliamialich@gmail.com)
## Exercise
We need a Frontend + Backend application that allows you to post and visualize metrics. Each metric will have: Timestamp, name, and value.
The metrics will be shown in a timeline and must show averages per minute/hour/day. The metrics will be persisted in the database.

## Project Composition
Ruby-on-Rails application for the Backend.
`/metrics-service`
React application for the Frontend.
`/metrics-app`

#### Setup
Follow the `README.md` file in each folder.

## Choices
**No Timeseries Database**
In a real-world scenario, this problem could be easily solved with a timeseries database like InfluxDB. However, for the exercise, I used a relational database.

**Single Table Strategy**
Metrics are stored in a single table with the `name` field acting as a key to distinguish between different metrics. This approach simplifies the database schema but might not be optimal for large-scale or high-performance applications.

**No Unit of Measure for Metrics:**
For the scope of the exercise and to manage heterogeneous metrics, I did not consider associating a unit of measure with each metric.

**Averages Calculation**
The system dinamically calculates averages per minute, hour, and day. This is transparent for the frontend that manages them as any other metric.

**Time Range Filtering**
The service is capable of handling time range parameters to filter data. However, the current frontend implementation does not utilize this feature. Implementing it would improve the usability of the system.
By default, the service returns data from the last four days. This setup is optimal for the dataset generated by the `seed_weather_like_metrics` task.

**Tests**: 
For the scope of this exercise, I did not implement unit tests as I believe they do not add significant value to the current state of the project.
We could talk about them during the further conversation.

## Limitations
- Using the current form, in the frontend, is not possible to insert sub-minute timestamps (use the seeds task server-side).
- In case of multiple datapoints having the same timestamp, only one is shown in the chart, but they are all persisted and all of them concurr in the avg calculation.
